System for Booking Doctor’s Appointment

HCL group has recently extended its business to provide healthcare services also. The details of service offerings are available on HCL website (hcl.com)

We are currently building the patient’s portal, most of it is already working.

We want to develop a ‘Doctor’s Appointment Booking’ module for this portal. 
Initially this facility will be available only for HCL employees and their family.

The steps for booking appointment are as follows:

1) Provide identification (through HCL-email or Employee Code)

2) Select a Health Center’s location

3) Search a doctor based on specialization (it can also be a named search)

4) Display doctor’s credentials, summary of expertise

5) Check doctor’s availability (date wise, time slots)

6) Book the appointment and display confirmation message on portal

7) Send appointment booking notification through email (or SMS)

The system should also provide facility to change the appointment date/time or cancel it altogether.

There may be a change in doctor’s availably (travelling, emergency etc.). 
In such cases the doctor informs about his/her unavailability to consult patients on specific date(s); but this 
functionality is out-of-scope for current hackathon exercise. 
However, the system should be able to notify the employee about cancellation of their earlier confirmed appointment, so that they can re-schedule.

The system should allow to book an appointment for next three months.

To provide the above functionality as a standalone application, we expect it to have

a. Home Page

It should have some generic information about HCL Healthcare, upcoming event(s) or promotion(s) and past achievements; 
primarily static information (may be borrowed from official site). It should also have the login feature.

b. Search page

To search/select a Healthcare Center and search a doctor based on specialization

c. Doctor details and Available time-slots

It should show some details about the doctor including experience, qualifications. 
It should also show the available time slots for next two days, but at the same time there should be a facility to pick a future date/time up to next three months.

One can book an appointment from this page and see the confirmation message.

Another version of this same page should open, when the user attempts to modify or cancel the appointment. 
Basic rules (like no cancellation for past date appointments) should be enforced.

d. System should send email (or SMS) notification w.r.t. confirmed appointment(s), along with the address of the Healthcare Center where patient can meet the doctor.

Guidelines for the Application

A. It should be a website developed on .Net Framework 4.5 (or 4.0) using C#, ASP.Net MVC, Web API, SQL, HTML and JavaScript. 
For building the UI screens Angular or Bootstrap or JQuery can be used. You may use Entity Framework or write SQL queries/ stored procedure; both are allowed. 
You can also use ASP.Net Web forms, instead of MVC.

B. All information w.r.t. Center Locations, Specialization, Doctor details, 
Available dates/time and Booked appointments should be populated from database and must not be hard-coded.

C. The system should be able to send notification to the patient (through email, SMS or web-based notification), anything is fine. 
This feature should be used to inform about cancelled appointment due to doctor’s unavailability.

D. We do not expect you to develop registration for this hackathon exercise (it is already in place and working properly). 
But for this hackathon, you can populate some dummy data (w.r.t. Login/password) directly in the database.

E. A simple but working page is preferred over a non-working but good looking page.

F. You are allowed to alter the functionality after discussing it with the Product Owner.

G. For demonstration purposes, to simulate the doctor’s unavailability (due to emergency) you can directly update the database and 
manually run the send-cancellation-notification program.

Some relevant implementations (from other portals) are provided only